README.md, before:

# Changelog Weaver

[![Pylint](https://github.com/hankanman/Changelog-Weaver/actions/workflows/pylint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hankanman/Changelog-Weaver/actions/workflows/pylint.yml)
[![Python package](https://github.com/Hankanman/Changelog-Weaver/actions/workflows/python-package.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Hankanman/Changelog-Weaver/actions/workflows/python-package.yml)

Changelog Weaver is a powerful tool designed to automatically generate comprehensive release notes for projects hosted on Azure DevOps and GitHub. It leverages the capabilities of GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) to summarize work items and produce professional, easy-to-read release notes in Markdown format.

## Features

- **Multi-Platform Support**: Seamlessly works with both Azure DevOps and GitHub repositories.
- **Automated Work Item Retrieval**: Automatically fetches work items, issues, and pull requests based on user-defined queries.
- **Intelligent Summarization**: Utilizes GPT to summarize work items into concise and meaningful release notes.
- **Multi-Format Output**: Generates release notes in Markdown and optionally converts them to HTML.
- **Customizable Configuration**: Offers customizable prompts and environment settings to fine-tune the summarization process.
- **Automation Support**: Easily integrated into CI/CD pipelines for automated release note generation.

## Example Changelog

You can see a generated changelog example [here](/assets/Changelog_Example.md)

<img src="/assets/Example_Output.png" alt="test" height="800px">

## Demo

![Demo](/assets/demo.gif)

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- **Python**: Version 3.8 or higher.
- **Azure DevOps Personal Access Token (PAT)** or **GitHub Access Token**: Required for fetching work items/issues.
- **OpenAI API Key**: Required for utilizing GPT for summarization.

### Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Hankanman/Changelog-Weaver.git
   cd Changelog-Weaver
   ```

2. **Create and Activate a Virtual Environment**

   ```bash
   python -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Set Up Environment Variables**

   Create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following content:

   ```bash
   SOLUTION_NAME=
   RELEASE_VERSION=
   SOFTWARE_SUMMARY=
   GET_ITEM_SUMMARY=True
   GET_CHANGELOG_SUMMARY=True
   PROJECT_URL=
   QUERY=
   ACCESS_TOKEN=
   GPT_API_KEY=
   MODEL_BASE_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1
   MODEL=gpt-4o-mini
   OUTPUT_FOLDER=Releases
   LOG_LEVEL=INFO
   ```

   For GitHub projects, set the `PROJECT_URL` to your GitHub repository URL (e.g., `https://github.com/username/repo`).

### Usage

To generate release notes, run:

```bash
python -m changelog_weaver
```

This will fetch work items based on the configuration and generate a Markdown file containing the release notes.

## Platform-Specific Configuration

### Azure DevOps

- Set `PROJECT_URL` to your Azure DevOps project URL (e.g., `https://dev.azure.com/organization/project`).
- `QUERY` should be the ID of your Azure DevOps query.
- `ACCESS_TOKEN` should be your Azure DevOps Personal Access Token.

### GitHub

- Set `PROJECT_URL` to your GitHub repository URL (e.g., `https://github.com/username/repo`).
- `QUERY` can be a GitHub search query (e.g., `is:issue is:closed`).
- `ACCESS_TOKEN` should be your GitHub Personal Access Token.

## Integrating with CI/CD

You can integrate Changelog Weaver into your CI/CD pipeline using the provided Azure DevOps YAML configuration or a GitHub Actions workflow:

- **Azure DevOps**: Copy the `Changelog-Weaver-Pipeline-Azure.yaml` from the `pipelines/` directory to your project's pipeline configuration.
- **GitHub Actions**: Adjust the provided GitHub Actions YAML to suit your repository setup.

## Customization

Changelog Weaver is highly customizable. You can modify the GPT prompts in `changelog_weaver/configuration/prompts.py` to change how the release notes are generated. Additionally, the output format and details can be adjusted in `changelog_weaver/configuration/output.py`.

## Testing

Unit tests are provided and can be run using `pytest`:

```bash
pytest
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository, make your changes, and submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for details.

Commit message:

feat(ci): add GitHub Actions workflow for automated changelog generation
Introduce a GitHub Actions workflow to automate the generation and attachment of changelogs upon new releases. This workflow sets up a Python environment, installs dependencies, creates a configuration file with repository secrets, runs Changelog Weaver, and attaches the generated changelog to the release. Updated README with instructions on using this workflow.

README.md, after:

# Changelog Weaver

[![Pylint](https://github.com/hankanman/Changelog-Weaver/actions/workflows/pylint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/hankanman/Changelog-Weaver/actions/workflows/pylint.yml)
[![Python package](https://github.com/Hankanman/Changelog-Weaver/actions/workflows/python-package.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/Hankanman/Changelog-Weaver/actions/workflows/python-package.yml)

Changelog Weaver is a powerful tool designed to automatically generate comprehensive release notes for projects hosted on Azure DevOps and GitHub. It leverages the capabilities of GPT (Generative Pre-trained Transformer) to summarize work items and produce professional, easy-to-read release notes in Markdown format.

## Features

- **Multi-Platform Support**: Seamlessly works with both Azure DevOps and GitHub repositories.
- **Automated Work Item Retrieval**: Automatically fetches work items, issues, and pull requests based on user-defined queries.
- **Intelligent Summarization**: Utilizes GPT to summarize work items into concise and meaningful release notes.
- **Multi-Format Output**: Generates release notes in Markdown and optionally converts them to HTML.
- **Customizable Configuration**: Offers customizable prompts and environment settings to fine-tune the summarization process.
- **Automation Support**: Easily integrated into CI/CD pipelines for automated release note generation.

## Example Changelog

You can see a generated changelog example [here](/assets/Changelog_Example.md)

<img src="/assets/Example_Output.png" alt="test" height="800px">

## Demo

![Demo](/assets/demo.gif)

## Setup Instructions

### Prerequisites

- **Python**: Version 3.8 or higher.
- **Azure DevOps Personal Access Token (PAT)** or **GitHub Access Token**: Required for fetching work items/issues.
- **OpenAI API Key**: Required for utilizing GPT for summarization.

### Installation

1. **Clone the Repository**

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Hankanman/Changelog-Weaver.git
   cd Changelog-Weaver
   ```

2. **Create and Activate a Virtual Environment**

   ```bash
   python -m venv venv
   source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
   ```

3. **Install Dependencies**

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Set Up Environment Variables**

   Create a `.env` file in the root directory with the following content:

   ```bash
   SOLUTION_NAME=
   RELEASE_VERSION=
   SOFTWARE_SUMMARY=
   GET_ITEM_SUMMARY=True
   GET_CHANGELOG_SUMMARY=True
   PROJECT_URL=
   QUERY=
   ACCESS_TOKEN=
   GPT_API_KEY=
   MODEL_BASE_URL=https://api.openai.com/v1
   MODEL=gpt-4o-mini
   OUTPUT_FOLDER=Releases
   LOG_LEVEL=INFO
   ```

   For GitHub projects, set the `PROJECT_URL` to your GitHub repository URL (e.g., `https://github.com/username/repo`).

### Usage

To generate release notes, run:

```bash
python -m changelog_weaver
```

This will fetch work items based on the configuration and generate a Markdown file containing the release notes.

## Platform-Specific Configuration

### Azure DevOps

- Set `PROJECT_URL` to your Azure DevOps project URL (e.g., `https://dev.azure.com/organization/project`).
- `QUERY` should be the ID of your Azure DevOps query.
- `ACCESS_TOKEN` should be your Azure DevOps Personal Access Token.

### GitHub

- Set `PROJECT_URL` to your GitHub repository URL (e.g., `https://github.com/username/repo`).
- `QUERY` can be a GitHub search query (e.g., `is:issue is:closed`).
- `ACCESS_TOKEN` should be your GitHub Personal Access Token.

## Integrating with CI/CD

You can integrate Changelog Weaver into your CI/CD pipeline using the provided Azure DevOps YAML configuration or a GitHub Actions workflow:

- **Azure DevOps**: Copy the `Changelog-Weaver-Pipeline-Azure.yaml` from the `pipelines/` directory to your project's pipeline configuration.
- **GitHub Actions**: Copy the `Changelog-Weaver-Action.yml` from the `pipelines/` directory. Adjust the provided GitHub Actions YAML to suit your repository setup.

## Automated Changelog Generation with GitHub Actions

This project includes a GitHub Actions workflow that automatically generates a changelog when a new release is created. Here's how it works:

1. When you create a new release in your GitHub repository, the workflow is triggered.
2. It sets up a Python environment and installs the necessary dependencies.
3. It creates a `.env` file with the required configuration, using repository secrets and release information.
4. It runs the Changelog Weaver to generate the release notes.
5. The generated changelog is uploaded as an artifact and attached to the release.

To use this workflow:

1. Ensure you have set up the `GPT_API_KEY` secret in your repository settings. This should contain your OpenAI API key.
2. Create a new release in your GitHub repository.
3. The workflow will automatically run and attach the generated changelog to the release.

You can customize the workflow by editing the `.github/workflows/generate-changelog.yml` file in your repository.

## Customization

Changelog Weaver is highly customizable. You can modify the GPT prompts in `changelog_weaver/configuration/prompts.py` to change how the release notes are generated. Additionally, the output format and details can be adjusted in `changelog_weaver/configuration/output.py`.

## Testing

Unit tests are provided and can be run using `pytest`:

```bash
pytest
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository, make your changes, and submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the `LICENSE` file for details.
